# Chess.io: Backend

This is chess.io's backend source code.

## Environment Variables

The project makes use of environment variables, loaded from a `.env` file at the backend root directory. There is an example config file at `.env.example`, rename this file to `.env` then use your own environment specific variables.

## Docker Compose

This project uses Docker and Docker compose to run the backend and other container dependencies, such as Postgres. Make sure you have Docker installed on your system, more information [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/).

```zsh
docker compose down -v && docker compose up -d
```

If the containers build successfully, you may access the API at `http://localhost:8080/api/v1/`. To view container logs, use:

```zsh
docker compose logs -f [container-name]
```

Replace `[container-name]` with the actual container name from the Docker Compose yaml file.

## Database Seeding

Before running the server, you must seed the `Country` table with data from the `seed/iso.csv` file. If the database seeds without errors, you may skip this step the next time.

Note, you must run this inside the Docker container where the backend is running.

```zsh
docker compose exec backend sh
go run ./cmd/seed/main.go
```

## Swagger Documentation

This project uses [swaggo/http-swagger](https://github.com/swaggo/http-swagger) to automatically generate the specifications. See [here](https://github.com/swaggo/swag#declarative-comments-format) for more details about the declarative comments format.

```zsh
# On MacOS
export PATH=$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin
```

```zsh
go install github.com/swaggo/swag/cmd/swag@latest
swag fmt
swag init -g ./cmd/server/main.go
```

You should be able to view the autogenerated swagger html file at `/schema/swagger/`.

You may have to use swag format and init every time you modify the swag comments. I've written a little script to help with that.

```zsh
# Do this once
chmod +x ./scripts/swag.sh
```

```zsh
./scripts/swag.sh
```
